DefGen v1.21 - Copyright 1993, Matthew Palcic
All rights reserved.  Distributed as Freeware.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Welcome to DefGen.  This program will turn a .RC file from OS/2 and
create a .DEF file from it.  This allows you to easily re-create the
stock objects created during installation of OS/2.

Using the resulting .DEF file you can update objects after fine tuning,
or you can rebuild damaged objects.  Additionally you can learn about
the objects that OS/2 uses and either modify, improve, or get ideas from
the ones IBM uses.  Most of the settings are documented in the
CrtObj.txt file.  Convert your INI.RC file and look at the resulting
.DEF file before you figure you know enough to create your own .DEF
files by hand.  There is a lot to be learned by studying that file
because OS/2 uses it as the main desktop for the Workplace Shell.

DefGen is based on Rebuild.cmd by Greg Czaja.  Thanks, Greg, for
pointing out some of the snags with getting the OBJECTID.

DeskMan/2 Support
-----------------
DefGen supports the .RC format that OS/2 uses, as well as the .DRC files
generated by DeskMan/2.  These file formats are for practical purposes
identical.  Using DefGen will allow you to use your DeskMan definition
files on a machine that doesn't have a copy of DeskMan installed.

You can convert your DeskMan DMAN.DRC to DMAN.DEF with the following
command:

  DefGen DMAN.DRC DMAN.DEF

Then use MakeDesk on any machine(s) on which you want to load those
objects, using "MAKEDESK DMAN.DEF".  A future version of MakeDesk may
support .RC and .DRC file formats directly.

Note:  To preserve desktop icons, be sure to set the "Create icons"
option on page 3 of DeskMan's Save settings tab, or add your own
ICONFILE definitions to your .DEF file.


Program command line parameters:
------------------------------------------------------------------------

  Syntax:
     DefGen drive|infile outfile

  Parameters:
     drive      Drive letter containing \OS2\INI.RC
                Default - boot drive
                Example - E:
     infile     Filename to process
                Default extension - (.rc)
                Example: E:\OS2\WIN_30.RC

     outfile    Object definition file to create.
                Default extension - (.def)
                Example: D:\Defs\Win_30.def

  Examples:
     DefGen E: D:\Temp\Ini.def
     DefGen C:\OS2\WIN_30.RC D:\Temp\Win_30.def

------------------------------------------------------------------------

User assumes all risk by using this product.  Matthew Palcic holds no
warranty or guarantee that this program will not cause side effects or
crashes.  Use it at your own risk. DefGen only uses documented system
calls to process files. If your system gets corrupted, don't blame me.
Chances are that some OS/2 bugs (either in the WorkPlace Shell or in
REXX) caused it.

**

I have developed a process for installing OS/2, the service pack, the
NetWare requester, and desktop setups from a Novell NetWare file server
requiring only a few diskettes at each station. Inquiries regarding this
process can be directed to:

  Personal Computer Systems
  5450 Olive Road
  Dayton, OH  45426

  513-837-8486, 9am-8pm M-F
  513-837-8286, Fax

