MakeDesk v1.30 - Copyright 1993, Matthew Palcic
DefGen v1.21 - Copyright 1993, Matthew Palcic
All rights reserved.  Distributed as Freeware.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

** Installation Note **

Run the PutEAs.cmd file to apply the extended attributes for MakeDesk
and DefGen.  This is not a required step, but adds an icon and file
types to those scripts. Hopefully, PKWare will be quicker about their
PKZip 2.x for OS/2 than they were for their DOS version.

NOTE:  You must have the Workplace Shell running and have REXX support
       installed in order to execute MakeDesk.

**

Originally designed for use as part of OS/2 installations from a LAN,
MakeDesk has saved me hours of manual customization of desktops for the
Workplace Shell.  Probably the best part about it is that it's free, and
it can run from another OS/2 command file or from the command prompt and
can run unattended (requiring no input). I am offering this as a free
utility to enable other OS/2 users to create desktop objects as easily
as possible.  I am not charging a registration fee for its use.
Consequently, I also provide no support for MakeDesk or DefGen.
Companies and end-users don't need to pay a fee to use this on any/every
OS/2 machine they set up.  I like OS/2 and want to make it easier for
other users, so MakeDesk is my free contribution. I just don't want
someone else making money from it, since that would defeat the purpose
of MakeDesk: free and useful.

I encourage you to share your object definition files with other users
so we can all learn a little bit more about OS/2.  I have included a
couple sample .DEF files and some sample icons.  These files are not
required for the operation of MakeDesk or DefGen.

**

MakeDesk and DefGen are free utilities.  This doesn't mean they are
public domain.  Do not charge anyone a fee for the use of this utility
set.  The only fees which may be charged when distributing this utility
are connect charges to a communications service or the cost of disk
duplication.

I was unable to identify the author of CrtObj.txt, which was obtained
from CompuServe.  I have kept that file exactly the same as it was when
I downloaded it.  I'm not charging anything for MakeDesk or DefGen, so I
am assuming CrtObj.txt can be included for free.

Please keep this archive in one piece.  Don't strip out files you don't
think you need then pass it on to another BBS or a friend.

**

I have developed a process for installing OS/2, the service pack, the
NetWare requester, and desktop setups from a Novell NetWare file server
requiring only a few diskettes at each station. Inquiries regarding this
process can be directed to:

  Personal Computer Systems
  5450 Olive Road
  Dayton, OH  45426

  513-837-8486, 9am-8pm M-F
  513-837-8286, Fax

**

For a drag and drop approach to MakeDesk, look for the fine shareware
product called DeskMan/2 by Greg Czaja and Development Technologies. For
information, contact Greg on CompuServe (71052,720).

 Desktop Manager is the program you have been waiting for since you
 installed OS/2 2.0 on your machine for the second time!

 This great operating system (as certainly OS/2 2.x is...) lacks a tiny,
 tiny feature - you can not preserve your desktop contents across total
 reinstalls or duplicate it on another machine, unless you do it
 manually.

 DeskMan will give you a helping hand and assist you in managing your
 objects - it won't allow them to manage you!

