

ClnICENews User's Guide v0.6				      27 Nov 03
============================

ClnICENews does a more or less controlled delete of the parts of the MR/2 ICE
news database that tend to get corrupted.  It also can delete the backup
files left over from prior news database rebuilds.

ClnICENews can process one or more profile accounts in a single run.

The next time MR/2 ICE activates the profile account, the deleted files will 
be detected and rebuilt.

MR/2 ICE must be shutdown when ClnICENews is run unless ClnICENews is run in 
test mode or in old files only mode or if you use the force option.

The database files that may be deleted are:

  ArtArtNo.idx
  OvrArtNo.idx
  OvrMsgId.idx

The backup files that may be deleted are:

  Article.old
  groups.old
  Overview.old

Installation
============

The preferred install location is the MR/2 ICE Scripts subdirectory, but the 
script may be installed elsewhere as long as you don't get too creative.  The 
script will make a best efforts search for your MR/2 ICE installation.


Usage
=====

To run ClnICENews in default mode, run it with no switches or arguments.  It
will find the profile accounts, news directories and the eligible files and 
will prompt you to confirm each file delete.

There are several optional command line switches available.  Switches are
unix style and begin with a dash (-) and are case-sensitive.  Slashes (/)
will not work.  The switches are:

  -f	Force to run even if mr2i.exe running.
  -h	Display usage help.
  -o	Select old backup files only.
  -t	Run in test mode.  Find and display files eligible for delete but
	delete nothing.
  -V	Display version info and exit.
  -y	Answer yes to all questions.  This is for the adventurous.  The
	selected files will be deleting without prompting.

You can select which profile accounts to process by listing them on the 
command line after the switches.  The default is to process all profile 
accounts.  For example:

  ClnICENews Mail eCS

will process only the Mail and eCS accounts.

To run against all profile accounts with no prompting, use:

  ClnICENews -y

To see what the above would delete, use:

  ClnICENews -t

If you know what you are doing, you can force to script to run while MR/2 ICE 
is active with:

  ClnICENews -f

It is safe to delete the old backup files from any profile account and the 
news index files from an inactive account.  However, do not attempt to delete 
the index files for the active account.  If you do and you destroy your news 
setup, you are on your own.  You have been warned.


License
=======

This program is free software licensed under the terms of the GNU   General 
Public License.  The GPL Software License can be found in   gnugpl2.txt or at 
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/licenses.html#GPL


Warranty
========

EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE RESTRICTED BY LAW, THIS WORK IS PROVIDED WITHOUT ANY
EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, MERCHANTABILITY
OR TITLE.  EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED BY LAW, NO AUTHOR, COPYRIGHT HOLDER
OR LICENSOR SHALL BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES OF ANY KIND, EVEN IF THEY
HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.


Support
=======

Please address support questions and enhancement requests to:

  Steven H. Levine
  steve53@earthlink.net

