±±±±±± WHAT'S NEW in CTorrent Monitor Version A:

- Bug fixes: 1) under certain conditions a default tracker in combination with
finished torrents formed a bad parameter string preventing ACT start. 2)
.torrent file names have spaces converted to underlines.

± NEW in CTorrent Monitor Version 9:

- UN-KLUDGED tracker setting, individually saved! When starting new torrents
with <backspace>, it uses ACT extract option to put the torrent's info into a
text file, which is viewed (then or later) with tedit.

- Auto-renaming of .torrents removes multiple underlines and a leading "The_",
which only waste space. (Easily disabled by commenting out section.)

±±±±±± INSTALLATION (all same as before, better explained for new users):

- Edit the code to change any drive and directories mentioned below. Comments
in the code should help if you need to customize.

- Place the .cmd file anywhere convenient, such as \OS2.

- Create an OS/2 Window program object. Torrents will be put into the working
directory of that program object, which must be same as base_dir in CTMx. (The
soft-coded default is c:\torrents.)

- Unzip and install ACT.EXE into exec_dir.

- CTMx will create needed directories below base_dir.

- Set Firefox to download .torrents into download_dir; those will be moved to
current_dir. (Any means which puts .torrents into download_dir OR current_dir
will work.)

- Edit ulr to limit upload rate to not starve other programs! For cable modem
of 40KB/S up, I find a 35K limit leaves enough to browse and run other
downloads. But when uploads total >30K, other traffic can get VERY slow.

±±±±±± OPERATION:

- With a new .torrent in download_dir, hit <backspace> in CTMx. File is moved
and its info is extracted using ACT.EXE into a .info file. Be patient for a
few seconds while the file is created.

- Tedit is invoked on the new .info file, *solely* for convenience to look at
the files and sizes. You can, however, edit the file to select desired tracker
by placing an '*' in first column by number (or the first byte of file for
default tracker, which I never find to work of late). Exit from tedit with F4.

If you don't wish to use tedit (you may even want to comment out the call! it
should be somewhere around line 340), then you'll next be presented with the
list of trackers: just press 0-9 (but NOT higher than is listed or you get the
default); that'll be saved into the .info file, and used from then on.

- CTMx then checks whether the .torrent is running -- or *appears* to be:
names fairly frequently duplicate so many characters that the limited number
from the window list aren't a unique name. You can edit .torrent names as
needed; has no effect on operation (kill any running instance, first, though).

- ACT.EXE is started on the torrent with parameters (only tracker # varies).
Check that it actually finds a tracker; ACT will usually bail out immediately
with a bad tracker, but sometimes waits forever (apparently if tracker is
semi-responding).

- To change trackers: hit <tab>, select with up / down arrows, then either:
<tab> again to invoke tedit and edit the .info manually, OR
<delete> the file and start over (probably only if badly mangled manually).
Then <backspace> to re-init (if now set correctly, will start the torrent as
usual; if not will invoke the setting routine again).

- When a torrent reaches 100%, the .torrent file is moved to finished_dir
(you'll frequently see this attempted right after start-up, be in cyan text).
When re-starting from cold, *much* time is saved by skipping the hash check
that all blocks are complete. -- SO BE SURE that all listed in finished_dir
are actually complete! The swarm will become angry if not!

- When no longer wish to start a torrent, hit <delete>, select with up / down
arrows, then hit <delete> again. The .torrent will be moved to deleted_dir;
should you ever wish to use it again, just move it back to current_dir (for a
check to be sure that it's *still* complete).

The .info files are deleted when corresponding .torrent is deleted (meaning
has to have finished), otherwise delete manually after pressing <tab>.

The ACT window will continue running unless manually stopped separately.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

There are still old commands to Stop and Finish torrents, but I haven't found
them near as useful as expected, always just use ctrl-esc for the window list.
Consider them disparaged. And the (a)ll command is a bit hazardous. The key
handlers for those can simply be deleted if you choose.

Below is probably of use only to me. But just a couple more notes. 1) Setting
I use for ACT cache is 1M, which seems to be per-instance value, but it's not
stated. Can't imagine any improvement, certainly haven't seen any difference
since adjusting it down from the ridiculous default. 2) The CTCS option MAY
have a drawback of pinging your router every few minutes. Mine logs requests
from own IP on those ports. No visible effect, so modify "params" if you've
no need for a CTCS server, or keep in mind if strange effects arise. 3) There
seems no way to remove ACT from the window list to reduce clutter; this
somewhat sets a limit on number of torrents, but so does my simplistic screen
routines. However, the main limit for me is upload speed, so hardly matters...

======================= cut from released ctm8_act ===========================

/* v8 kludges in a manual capability to use alternate trackers. For now, again
  looks like this is the last version. (While we await useable PMCTM...)
  Start-up can now be tricky when multiple trackers are required.
  First ensure that current soft-coded value (3) is okay for at least one.
  If not, follow directions below to set to default (0) or other value.
  If ACT bails out on some for bad tracker selection, tap a number key for
  another to try, then hit <backspace> to re-start.
  One symptom of a non-responding tracker may be system is sluggish.

- CTM8 for use solely with act.exe ctorrent client found at:
  http://www.os2site.com/sw/internet/peer_peer/act027t2.zip
  Place executable file in 'C:\ACT' or change code below.
- ACT has the now necessary feature of alternate trackers. Unlike ctorrent9,
  initial checking doesn't grind system to near halt (though breaks my wait
  mechanism of checking for '%' in switch list) even when checking several at
  once during start-up. Which is good, because so far don't see a way to make
  this program detect the checking.
- Setting cache for ACT.EXE to 1M seems to avoid excessive memory use
  (ctorrent9 still gobbled memory with that value). Can't advise more because
  seems to be a per-instance value rather than global.
- ACT.EXE makes and supposedly uses .bf (bit-field) files to record pieces.
  These can be deleted at will, seem neither necessary nor to speed checking.

>>> I HOPE that I've at last got it to run without an ACT instance. But I hate
>>> testing for that because is a pain. */

==================== end merged section of ctm8_act ==========================

- NEW in Version 8: now solely for ACT.EXE to use alternate trackers necessary
  after TPB went down. I *still* can't use the TPB tracker, if it exists. But
  openbittorrent is usually listed as alternate #3, so I use that for initial
  value. After you have one instance of ACT running, can vary that value with
  number keys as needed for other torrents (many MUST use the default).

  CTM could use a total re-write. Some of the start-up complexity is no longer
  needed with ACT, but since it works, I'm leaving it. And I've a workable way
  to make tracker selection semi-permanent for a given torrent but frankly,
  have to know enough are actually using it to put in more time. You can of
  course continue to wait for a "pretty" GUI from elsewhere that's useable;
  CTM8 merely does fundamentals like start-up and basic monitoring.

- NEW in Version 7:
  There actually is code after these lengthy comments! It's quite a heap of
  kludges yet in continuous use with only minor cosmetic and interface bugs.
  Could stand a re-write now that have a handle on what functions I want, and
  the real-time problems, but this is likely the last version. IF I come up
  with further improvements, guess will move comments to a "whatsnew.txt".

* MUCH faster cold start-up by using '-f' switch, Force Seed Mode, which skips
  hash test. This saves, for 30G of torrents on my low power for summer time
  IBM 300PL, over an hour of heavy disk thrashing. Makes it feasible to power
  down overnight without painful sluggishness on next start.

  However, ctorrent9 isn't smart enough to NOT serve out garbage when a new
  torrent is started with the '-f' switch given ÄÄ even though it just created
  the file ÄÄ so are now three states: Current, Finished, and Deleted.

  Files are automatically moved from current_dir to finished_dir by brute
  force method, but this runs only at start-up or when a torrent reaches 100%.
  You still CAN mark/move torrents as 'Finished'; this looks same as previous,
  but those in finished_dir will now be served out as complete. ÄÄ WHETHER
  they are or not! ctorrent9 doesn't care! So YOU must.

  'Deleting' a 'Finished' torrent is handled by a new procedure. Hit <delete>
  to begin selection, <delete> again to actually move; <esc> to exit. Files
  are only moved to deleted_dir; manually move (to current_dir to ensure that
  it gets hash-checked and is complete) to re-start.

* Initial delay because now in start-up folder of dedicated box, gives time to
  open other apps before disk thrashing. Hit any key to skip. Easily removed.

* Cosmetics, even some code clean-up, and displays a little more info.

* Creates required dirs. When moving to new box, found that getting going is
  difficult without these. You might also put a .torrent in current_dir.

* Var "params" now has '-e 168' switch to run finished torrents for 168 hours.
  Seems best for my selections. Popular torrents don't need my 3-4 KB/s, and
  my total number must be limited so that any one can get even that high, so I
  soon delete popular torrents, while keeping the rarer online.

? Ctorrent9 seems to grab huge amount of memory. Have 320M RAM yet swapper.dat
  keeps growing, with 18 torrents is up to 167M. Firefox is the only sizeable
  app running. Tried the '-C' cache switch at 1M (as below), but seems to have
  no effect. Not exactly a problem ÄÄ now, though sluggish with a mere 192M ÄÄ
  but odd, only OS/2 app I've seen grab ÄÄ or perhaps leak ÄÄ so much memory.

  Another problem with numerous torrents is that my usual more than fills a
  maximized window list. For those who think of hiding it: experimented via
  the Pyrxutil utils, and ctorrent9 puts itself back to visible.

- NEW in Version 6:
  At last have a way (PGMCNTRL) to close the VIO windows. But requires keying
  or mouse click on a "Yes" button. Still handier. Apparently nothing can kill
  ctorrent9, doesn't even seem to use stdin. You'll need this in \OS2:
     http://hobbes2.nmsu.edu/download/pub/os2/util/process/pgmcn107.zip
  CTM6 runs without PGMCNTRL, still moves .torrent, just can't close windows.
  ( If .torrent starts with '[' or '(', a PGMCNTRL "feature" causes a bug. )

  To back out of or refresh the selection routine, hit <esc> a couple times.

  After testing with Stop and Finish, found it tedious to close ALL torrents,
  so added an All choice. You don't need to use arrows to start selecting,
  just type 'a'; further instructions are given.

  >>> IF you run more than 23 torrents (!) you'll break my selection routine,
  BUT you can add a line in here to increase screen rows ('mode 80,40').

  Sorting by % done puts those still downloading at bottom, handiest for view
  under another window. Newest will likely be on bottom line.

 -NEW in Version 5:
  Separate executable (exec_dir) and download directories (base_dir).
  A bit more info and better formatting.
