

msgutil User's Guide v0.2				    15 Apr 2012
=========================

This is my private version of msgutil.cmd for MR/2 ICE.  It corrects defects
in the msgutil.org supplied with MR/2 and adds features I find useful.

The script is not yet fully generic, but I'm willing to consider
modifications that make it easier for others to use this script without
edits.  Search the script for the string "SHL Localize" for examples of the
edits that you might find useful.

This script does not contain any specific cross platform support since I run
only the OS/2 version of MR/2.


Installation
============

Make a back up of your existing msgutil.cmd and copy this version in its
place.

Check for hardcoded settings that do not match your requirements and change
them as needed.


Usage
=====

MR/2 invokes msgutil with two arguments, a function key number and a fully
qualified message file name.  If you run msgutil from the command line you
must pass fully qualified file names.  The code also assumes it is running
from the MR/2 working directory.


Customizing
===========

msgutil is REXX, so you can modify it to do more or less than it currently
does.


License
=======

My modifications to msgutil.cmd are free software licensed under the terms
of the GNU General Public License.  The GPL Software License can be found
in gnugpl2.txt or at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/licenses.html#GPL

The other portions of this script are licensed under the original copyright
terms.


Warranty
========

EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE RESTRICTED BY LAW, THIS WORK IS PROVIDED WITHOUT ANY
EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, MERCHANTABILITY
OR TITLE.  EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED BY LAW, NO AUTHOR, COPYRIGHT HOLDER
OR LICENSOR SHALL BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES OF ANY KIND, EVEN IF THEY
HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.


Support
=======

Please address support questions and enhancement requests to:

  Steven H. Levine
  steve53@earthlink.net
