

ClassicRexx.cmd User's Guide v0.2			        26 May 2010
=================================

ClassicRexx.cmd is a 4OS2 script that prepares a session to run Classic REXX.  
Some REXX scripts contain errors that make them incompatible with Object 
REXX.  ClassicRexx.cmd allows these scripts to be run on a system that 
defaults to Object REXX without running SwitchRx.cmd and rebooting.

Installation
============

Install the script in a directory of your choice.  You should probably 
install it to a directory in the PATH.

Usage
=====

ClassicRexx.cmd can be run with or without arguments.

When run without arguments, the script creates a session set up to run
Classic REXX and sets the prompt to report the REXX mode.  The prompt should 
indicate REXXSAA.  Type "exit" without quotes to terminate the session.  If 
the prompt does not indicate REXXSAA, the setup failed.  Please request help.

When run with arguments, the script creates a Classic REXX session; passes
the arguments to the session for execution and terminates the session after
the commands are executed.

The command line syntax is

  ClassicRexx [-h] [args...]

	-h       Display help

the argument options are:

	args...	 Optional command line

Switches must begin with a dash (-) and are case-insensitive.

Notes
=====

The script uses LIBPATHSTRICT and BEGINLIBPATH.  Some applications may 
refuse to run correctly in a session that defines these settings.  Some 
applications may override these settings.  This may result in Object REXX 
being invoked.

License
=======

This program is free software licensed under the terms of the GNU General
Public License.  The GPL Software License can be found in gnugpl2.txt or at
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/licenses.html#GPL

Warranty
========

EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE RESTRICTED BY LAW, THIS WORK IS PROVIDED WITHOUT ANY
EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, MERCHANTABILITY
OR TITLE.  EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED BY LAW, NO AUTHOR, COPYRIGHT HOLDER
OR LICENSOR SHALL BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES OF ANY KIND, EVEN IF THEY
HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

ToDo
====

Convert script to REXX, if possible.

Support
=======

Please address support questions and enhancement requests to:

  Steven H. Levine
  steve53@earthlink.net
